README.md, before:

# Social_Disparity_Group_Project

Social Disparity is a large topic. The major examples of social inequality include income gap, racial and ethnic inequality, gender inequality, healthcare and social class. Actually, it exists in every society.


In this project, we mainly focus on social disparity in USA society. For aspect of disparity, we aim to analyze the people by total money income, work experience, race, hispanic origin and sex based on the past five years' data from Current Population Survey (CPS) Annual Social and Economic (ASEC) Supplement. (https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/income-poverty/cps-pinc/pinc-01.html).

For the purpose of analysis, we mainly want to explore the following research questions: 

1. In terms of total money income, except work experience, which kinds of factors such as race, hispanic origin and sex could make a large difference for people's total money income? Are there any significant difference of people's total money income among different races, sex and hispanic origin? 

2. Life common sense tells us that work experience could contribute a lot to people's money income. So given similar level of work experience, do people of different race, sex, hispanic origin have significant difference in total money income? If the answer is yes, ee propose to choose a reasonable way to measure such kinds of difference.

3. In this project, we focus on the data of past five years. Therefore, there exist time and spatial trend of social disparity. As society develops, many people are making contributions to reducing social disparity. We hope to create a dashboard which includes both time and spatial component. Within this part, we would capture features of total money income difference of difference years and location based on time series and spatial data.

Our project will be divided into the following parts:

**Introduction**

The background of project and the problems that we hope to solve.

**Data Exploration**

Do the descriptive statistical analysis, understand the characteristics of dataset. 

**Data Management and Manipulation**

Deal with missing value and categorical variables (eg. sort), remove unneeded data, reformat data eg. row and column filtering, aggregation, join and concatenation and so on.

**Hypothesis Testing and Modeling**

For this part, we would apply statistical hypoethesis testing and modeling to solve research questions of this project.

**Time Trend Analysis**

For this part, we mainly want to investigate the time trend of social disparity. We will mainly use data visualization and dashboards to see the time trend and get interesting findings to follow up. If necessary, we will also try to apply time series analysis.

**Spatial Analysis**

In this part, We want to see whether there exist special social disparity changing trend in some places. We will mainly use some visualization tools for this part.

**Results**

We will answer our research questions based on the results of analysis in this part.

**Interesting Findings to Follow up**

If we have some interesting findings or something for further exploration, we will add them to this part.

Commit message:

Editing README with suggestions for project focus and structure

README.md, after:

# Social_Disparity_Group_Project

Social Disparity is a large topic. The major examples of social inequality include income gap, racial and ethnic inequality, gender inequality, healthcare and social class. 


Social disparity exists in every society, but we will mainly focus on social disparity within the United States. We aim to analyze the people living in the United States by total money income, work experience, race, hispanic origin and sex based on the past five years' data from Current Population Survey (CPS) Annual Social and Economic (ASEC) Supplement. (https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/income-poverty/cps-pinc/pinc-01.html).

For the purpose of our analysis, we mainly want to explore the following research questions: 

1. What factors excluding work experience (e.g. race, hispanic origin, sex) could make a large difference for an individual's total money income? Are there any significant differences in an individual's total money income across different races, sex, and hispanic origin?

2. Common sense tells us that work experience could significantly contribute to an individual's total income. Given similar levels of work experience, do those of different race, sex, hispanic origin have significant difference in total money income? If so, we aim to find a reasonable way to measure such differences.

3. In this project, we will focus on the data from past five years. As society develops, many people are making contributions to reduce social disparity. We would like to measure this. Over the past five years, there will exist trends of social disparity both temporally and spatially. We hope to create a dashboard which includes both a temporal and spatial component. We would like to capture features of the difference in total money income of different years and locations based on time series and spatial data.

Our project will be divided into the following parts:

**Introduction**

The background of project and the problems that we hope to solve.

**Data Exploration**

Descriptive statistic analysis to understand the characteristics of the dataset. 

**Data Management and Manipulation**

Handle missing values and categorical variables (eg. sort), remove unneeded data, reformat data (eg. row and column filtering, aggregation, join and concatenation) and so on.

**Hypothesis Testing and Modeling**

We will apply statistical hypothesis testing and modeling to solve research questions of this project.

**Time Trend Analysis**

We want to investigate the time trend of social disparity. We will mainly use data visualization and dashboards to see the time trend and get interesting findings to follow up. If necessary, we will also try to apply time series analysis.

**Spatial Analysis**

We want to see whether there exist unique social disparity changes and trends in certain locations. We will mainly use visualization tools to determine these locations.

**Results**

We will answer our research questions based on the results of analysis in this part.

**Future Studies**

If we have some interesting findings or something for further exploration, we will list them here.
